# Contributing

Pull requests for new scripts, features, patch updates, or fixes to documentation are welcome. You can do so through [GitHub](https://github.com/redstrate/Kawari).

For informal development discussion outside of GitHub, join the [Kawari Dev Chat](https://matrix.to/#/#kawari-welcome:pyra.sh).

## Acceptable Usage

Ensure you read our [Acceptable Usage policy](https://docs.xiv.zone/kawari/acceptable_usage.html) before contributing to the project.

## Scope

Before spending time on a patch we may not accept, please familiarize yourself with [our Project Scope](https://docs.xiv.zone/kawari/scope.html).

## Use of Generative AI

This project does not allow contributions generated by large languages models (LLMs) and chatbots. This ban includes, but is not limited to, tools like ChatGPT, Claude, Copilot, DeepSeek, and Devin AI. We are taking these steps as precaution due to the potential negative influence of AI generated content on quality, as well as likely copyright violations.

This ban of AI generated content applies to all parts of the projects, including, but not limited to, code, documentation, issues, and artworks. An exception applies for purely translating texts for issues and comments to English.

AI tools can be used to answer questions and find information. However, we encourage contributors to avoid them in favor of using existing documentation and our chat. Since AI generated information is frequently misleading or false, we cannot supply support on anything referencing AI output.

## Checklist

Before making a pull request, make sure:

* Kawari compiles and runs fine. At a minimum, you should be able to login to the World server.
* Run `cargo fmt` to ensure your code is formatted.
* Run `cargo clippy --features oodle` and fix all of the warnings for any new code, to the best of your ability.
* Run `cargo test` to make sure the tests complete on your machine.

Please ensure your commits are atomic, and has short and concise messaging. This isn't a strict guideline so please don't sweat it, but will help keep our history clean and readable. If you need any pointers on how to do this efficiently, don't be afraid to reach out!

## Updating to new patches

Updating Kawari can be quite involved, and so we developed a tool to automate the process. You can find said tool [here](https://codeberg.org/redstrate/KawariUpdater).

## Testing local Physis

Sometimes, you need to be able to test changes without committing or
pushing changes to Physis. But since we depend on other crates that define
their dependency on Physis you need to do this a certain way.

Add this line to the bottom of your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[patch."https://github.com/redstrate/Physis"]
physis = { path = "/path/to/your/Physis" }
```

This will ensure all of the dependencies target your local Physis checkout and you don't end up with multiple conflicting library versions.

## Working on databases

We use Diesel, a ORM library. It has a migration system, which we need to keep up-to-date in order for new databases to be created successfully.

We currently do not worry about versioning our migrations, because we also don't guarantee data stability.

### Login

Here's how to recreate the login migrations:

```shell
rm -r servers/login/migrations/current_login
DATABASE_URL=:memory: diesel migration generate --version current --diff-schema=servers/login/src/schema.rs --no-down --locked-schema --migration-dir servers/login/migrations login
```

### World

Here's how to recreate the world migrations:

```shell
rm -r servers/world/migrations/current_world
DATABASE_URL=:memory: diesel migration generate --version current --diff-schema=servers/world/src/database/schema.rs --no-down --locked-schema --migration-dir servers/world/migrations world
```
